---
title: "imitation-1 for The Stoic Path to Wealth"
date: 2024-07-18
layout: single
comments: true
published: true
categories: [growth]
tags:

---

 # How to Learn Faster with the Skill Springboard

Zeno believed that "the goal of life is to live in harmony with nature." Simply put, it means those who adapt themselves to the world are happy, and those who don't are not. This is also the key to career success. If we look for the answers within, we will thrive in the world. If we ask ourselves, How can I provide value to society? and then acqure the skills to do that, we will always have work. This ability to adapt is like a money-printing machine.

Jesse Livermore's upbringing is in stark contrast to how Zeno grew up. And yet they had the same approach to life. They both adapted themselved to the world and didn't ask the world to adapt to them. Isn't the latter a formula for frustration? If we expect that we should be guranteed a job simply because we have a degree, we will soon learn a lesson in humility. We live in a transactional economy. You create value, and in return you're financially rewearded.

The foundation for building wealth from nothing is to acquire skills that increase your value in society. Any skill that gives you the opportunity to generate income is valuable. Think of writing, coding, public speaking, designing, or leading. Think of the concept of valuable skills as fluid. Knowing how to modify a telegraph to communicate stock prices might have been a valuable skill in the nineteenth century. But it became obsolete once the telephone and later the fax machine were introduced. If you want to be someone who can adapt yourself to the world, you must learn how to learn. When you're able to acquire any skill, you can adapt to what the world needs. Robert Greene, the author of Mastery, a book about the importance of skill development in a person's life, said it best: "The future belongs to those who learn more skills and combine them in creative ways."

Stoics took pricde in their ability to adapt. They could always find inner peace no matter what life threw at them. This fluid mindset is essential in todya's world, where new technology arrives and changes faster than ever. 

We must train ourselves to become leanring machines, to adapt to any situation. As Epictetus said: "What then is education? Education is the learning how to adapt."

The Stoics and the most successful investors indeed have a unique approach to learning. I call this framework the Skill Springboard.

1. **Work with your natural abilities:** Every person has inherent strengths. You will be able to provide more value if you focus on what you're already good at.
2. Learn from the best: If you decide to learn anything, commit to only learning from the best. By studying the greats, it's more likely yoo will get to new heights.
3. Break free from your mentors: At some point in your progress, you will start to tie everything you've learned together into a unique way of putting your skills to work.
4. 